                         Bodgitt and Scarper User Guide

  This document describes the main functions of the Bodgitt and Scarper, LLC
  customer service representative application and how to use it.

  Table of contents
  -----------------

  1. Starting the application
     a. Prerequisites to starting the application
     b. Starting the networked Server
     c. Starting the networked Client
     d. Starting the StandAlone application

  2. Working with the Server
     a. Overview
     b. Database location
     c. Starting and stopping the Server

  3. Working with the Client
     a. Overview
     b. Connecting to the Server
     c. Using the search function
     d. Editing a Contractor
     e. Booking a Contractor
     f. Deleting a Contractor

  4. StandAlone mode

  5. Troubleshooting

  Starting the application
  ------------------------

  Prerequisites to starting the application
  Before starting the application you must first have the Java Runtime
  Environment (JRE) installed on your computer. Download this from the Oracle
  website.
  You will also need to runme.jar file that contains the Bodgitt and Scarper
  application.

  Starting the networked Server
  To start the application in networked server mode run the application with a
  "server" parameter, shown below.
  java -jar runme.jar server

  Starting the networked Client
  To start the application in networked client mode run the application with no
  starting parameters, shown below.
  java -jar runme.jar

  Starting the StandAlone application
  To start the application in standalone mode run the application with no an
  "alone" starting parameters, shown below.
  java -jar runme.jar alone

  Working with the Server
  -----------------------

  Overview
  When the server starts you will be presented with a very simple user
  interface allowing you to enter the location of a database file and start the
  server so it can start accepting client calls.

  Database location
  To chose a database location press the 'Locate' button in the UI. It opens a
  dialog allowing you to select any file with a .db extension. Once you select
  a file in the dialog you will notice the text field to the left of the
  'Locate' button will display the location of the file you selected.

  Starting and stopping the Server
  Once a database location has been selected press the 'Start' button on the UI
  to start the server. Once the server is started you will notice the 'Locate'
  and 'Start' buttons become grayed out and are no longer selectable. This
  indicates that the server has successfully started.
  The final button on the server UI is the 'Shutdown' button. This will close
  the application completely. If the server had been started previously it will
  now stop and will no longer be able to receive connections.

  Working with the Client
  -----------------------

  Overview
  When the client starts you will be presented with the client UI. This allows
  you as the application user to search for Contractors based on any fields, it
  allows you to edit the Contractors details, it allows you to remove
  Contractors and finally it allows you to book a Contractor on behalf of a
  customer.

  Connecting to the Server
  When the application is started in client mode the first action you must take
  is specifying the location of the networked server. This is done via the
  server location dialog which gets presented to you on start up.
  There is a single text box allowing you to enter to hostname of the remote
  server. When clicking 'OK' the client will attempt to connect to the server
  at the specified hostname. If this succeeds you will be presented with the
  client UI. Otherwise an error message will be displayed and you can enter the
  correct hostname or exit.

  Using the search function
  The search feature allows you to search for Contractors based on the
  following fields, Name, Location, Type of work, Number of staff, Rate per
  hour and customer ID. Each field has a text box where you can enter the value
  you wish to search on. Leaving a search box empty will not filter search
  results by that field.
  By default all searches will be strict. This means the text you enter in the
  search boxes will only return Contractors whose fields exactly match the
  search criteria entered. Including case. A less strict search can be
  performed by de-selecting the 'Exact match' check-box, visible above the
  'Search' button on the right of the search area. When the 'Exact match'
  box is unchecked the search will return Contractors whose fields contain the
  search criteria. I.e. searching 'vill' will match 'SmallVille' and
  'Whoville'.
  If you leave all search boxes empty the search will display all Contractors.

  Editing a Contractor
  To edit a Contractor in the search results table, select the Contractor and
  double click on the field you wish to edit. This will enable editing for that
  field. Type in the new value for the field and press the Return button on
  your keyboard.

  Booking a Contractor
  To book a Contractor you should edit the last column in the search results
  table, 'Customer ID'. See "Editing a Contractor" above for details on how to
  enter values.
  When booking a Contractor you must enter an 8 digit number which represents
  the customer that is booking the Contractor. Only 8 digit numbers will be
  accepted.

  Deleting a Contractor
  To delete a Contractor select the Contractor in the search results table and
  click the 'Delete' button found below the table. You will notice the 'Delete'
  button indicates the number of selected rows in the table. It is possible to
  select more than one Contractor in the table, when multipe Contractors are
  selected simultaneously the 'Delete' button will indicate the total number of
  selected rows. Pressing 'Delete' when multiple rows are selected will delete
  all the selected Contractors.

  StandAlone mode
  ---------------

  When the application is started in standalone mode first you will be
  presented with this same server user interface as detailed in the
  "2. Working with the Server" section. All actions as described in that
  section are the same for standalone mode. The only difference being when you
  press the 'Start' button the server UI will now close and you will be
  presented with the client UI. Again the client user interface is described in
  detail in "3. Working with the Client".
  When you exit the client application in standalone mode both the server and
  client will be shutdown.

  Troubleshooting
  ---------------

  If an error occurs on the Client, Server or StandAlone application you will
  be presented with a popup message detailing the fault.
  Usually these faults are recoverable and you can retry the failed action.
  However some faults are unrecoverable and will cause the application to exit.
  When such faults occur the popup message will inform you that the application
  has to exit.